"Welcome everyone to our week 1 study hall. So chef Kyle and myself are very proud. We have a nice group. Let me pick on. We have, again, 45 of you tuning in. So thank you very much. A super exciting first study hall because we are going to make a nice demonstration alongside. As you can see, we are both, in our, uniform, share Kyle and myself, because we are splitting this assignment into 2 part. So we are going to collaborating, in the elaboration and sharing some tricks and some tips with you so that you may take some notes, please. And, then if you have any question, remember, we're see each other at 4 o'clock for our week 1 live session where we are there to discuss in detail everything with you. Chef Kyle, go ahead. Anything you would like to add before we start our presentation? Yeah. Yeah. We're excited. We got a whole new format here, this term. I know I was getting lots of questions earlier today. Wait. Is the are there 2 classes today? Which one is the class? And, you know, what there's study halls before the live session and all that. Well, well, what we're trying to do is we're gonna do the demo first. And then chef and I, we're gonna collaborate, and both of us will do one part of the demo so that you guys get to see everything. We get to put our own little twist and spin on it. You know, Cheff and I, both of us are bringing decades of experience, to the table, and we really wanna share with you all of our best tips for, ways that you can achieve the results that you're looking for with these dishes. Right? Because, you know so we're focused on, you know, the science, explaining why we're doing what we're doing, and we're showing you a variety of ways to, modify the dishes because that is the art side of thing. You can't just copy what someone else is doing. You need to decide what you want, know how to get there, and have the skills to make it happen. So that's our goal this term is to give you all of that. And we hope you, all enjoy the ride, and, you get lots out of it. Perfect. Yes. And you notice that the beauty is one after the other. So we're going to try to make with a demo. We're going over exactly the recipe. So when we meet again, we're going over the, it's going to be formed into more discussion aspect. So it's going to be required from all of you to at least review the interactive lesson so you'll know exactly what we are going to be looking in our week. And that's really the benefit, for having these interactive aspect. It's collaboration among, everyone. So here we wanna make sure and emphasize that everyone, please don't be afraid. If you don't know something, ask. Many maybe don't wanna ask, but they're going to be exactly in your same shoes. So don't feel, ashamed. Don't feel afraid. We are here. We are here to building knowledge. Knowledge that you are going to take in with you wherever you will go, wherever your goal will be, in the near future, either working as a manager for somebody or owning your own, business. Absolutely. So alright. So shall we kick it off, Get it started here? You're gonna start with the dough first? Yeah. Yeah. I'll start with the dough. And then maybe assign, and I wanna start, our tomatillo saw salsa over here. Yeah. Any anytime you wanna start charring things, go for it. So here we are. I've got a few different ingredients here. I've got lard, water, and flour. Now if you follow the recipes on the, interactive recipe book, you'll get kind of like a mealy texture of, empanada dough. And that's cool. I like it. Lots of places do it that way. But what if you wanted a flakier dough? How do you accomplish that flaky texture? Right. So I I know if you went through the re the, lesson this week, you probably saw a little bit about what that's about. So for a mealy texture, you want a fine texture of fat when you blend it into the flour. But for a flaky texture, you need a larger, size of fat. Some people go pea size. Some people go walnut size. Just kinda depends on what size and how flaky you want it to be. But, there's another thing that we need to modify about this recipe if we want to accomplish that really, really flaky texture, like you would in a pie or dough or hand pies, and many other styles of empanadas, and that is that you need to chill all the ingredients. If you're just using if you were using butter as your fat, you could just refrigerate it, but if you're using lard, it's really soft. So, what I've done is I froze it. So I put the the lard and the flour in the freezer a couple of hours ago, and then I just pulled it out and measured it right before the demo started. So it's still the flower's still really cold and the lard is much harder than it would be at room temperature. Additionally, I didn't freeze the water, but I used, ice water and I measured out a portion of it into this frozen container. Now I could have gone overboard and gotten out a marble slab and put it in the freezer and then had that as my surface to roll out. Some people go so far as to, get a marble rolling pin and freeze that because the key to that really, really flaky texture is just it's all gotta stay cold until it goes into the oven. And then you want that butter to start to melt and separate those layers or, in this case, lard. So so there's that. Well, we talked about the ingredients. Now, the recipe called for bread and cake, which is cool. If you're having trouble finding bread and or cake, you can use all purpose flour. You get slightly different results. Both are absolutely acceptable. Even restaurants, a lot of them will just use all purpose flour. So don't be shy about, making that change. Won't affect it a whole lot. I've also done gluten free versions of this, and I've just replaced this flour with a gluten free flour blend. I typically do equal parts of, sorghum, potato starch, and, either oat flour or brown rice flour depending on, you know, which client I'm working for. My my girlfriend's allergic to wheat and oats, so I always do brown rice for her or teff. I kinda you know, you can kinda play around with that. I've also done whole wheat versions of this, which requires just a little bit more water. So there's that. There's the ingredients, and then tools. In the video, the chef used a pastry blender, which makes a really fine texture. It's great for a mealie dough. It does it really fast. The closest thing you'd get to something that goes fairly quickly would be a fork, so you don't have to go out and buy pastry blender. I actually really don't like one trick ponies like that. The fork is the multipurpose tool, and it does a great job. But my go to's, are either a bench scraper or a, a bowl scraper. Right? Bench knife, bowl scraper. Either one of these, any one of these tools will be fine. Now if you want a really, nice mealy dough or flaky dough, don't use your hands because your hands will warm the fat up and cause it to start to melt, and that is not what we want to accomplish there. So, let's get started. I'm gonna pour the cold flour on my bench, gonna add quarter teaspoon of salt, and I'm using fine iodized salt here, and I'm just gonna mix all that together. Nice and chilly. Wonderful on a hot day like this. That feels nice. Alright. Then I'm going to add the fat. I'll try to get most of it out with the tool. Go on with my finger a little bit to get that last bit out. So remember here the trick chef Kyle use frozen lard because, like, it's not very well the dough. Yeah. It's it's much, colder and firmer, and that just helps us get those nice flakes if that's what we're shooting for. So, you know, today, I'm gonna go for about pea size. So just chop it up a little bit, and then I'll come at it from every direction with either the bench knife or the bowl scraper. And just chop, chop, chop, chop, bring it all back together, and you can see, like, little pea sized, like, green pea lumps of fat in there. I think that's perfect. Doesn't take any more than that. Small batch like this really goes really quickly. Then I gotta make a big well in the center, and I'm gonna add my chilled water. Right. And then I'm just gonna kick the tops of the hill then. This always reminds me of going to the beach as a kid. You know, you make a make a well, fill it with salt water, you know, and kinda fill it in without it all escaping. Right? And then I'll grab the bench scraper or bench knife, either one, and, just start to bring it all together. And I'm gonna do this kind of like smashing. Right? So you're just bringing the dough together, come at it from a few different directions, scrape it all around, and again repeat. Alright. Now again, like, some people would prefer to get their hands in this because maybe it's more efficient, but your hands are gonna warm it up. And if you warm it up, you melt that fat and you lose some of the, flakiness, because we don't want that fat to melt until this goes in the oven. Alright. Starting to come together. And another thing is, a lot of people, they like to when they see it kind of dry at this stage, they think, oh, I should add some more water to bring it together. But the thing is with, with high dose and empanada dose and all of that is if you add more water, it will make it easier for it to come together, but you again, you're gonna lose some of that flakiness. So try you know, the the idea is you wanna have the driest dough that you can work with without adding more water. I don't know. Mine does seem a little bit dry. I'm gonna add, maybe, a teaspoon or 2. Your results may vary. It depends on, how humid your kitchen is and how, much of that moisture your, flour has absorbed. So in some kitchens, your flour might be, really, humid because you left the container open and, that will cause it to, get really wet and, then you don't need to use as much flour. I, as soon as I get my flour home, I put it into a, a Tupperware container, and I keep that lid sealed. I never let it sit out. So I think that's why mine's a little bit drier. So I am getting my hands on it towards the end, but, I don't like to start that way because I want it to come together, without, getting warm. So I think we're about there. Now once you've got this dough together, just get it smooth. You don't need to knead it a whole lot. We're not trying to develop a lot of, gluten here because if you get too much gluten development, you're gonna make the dough tough. So we don't want it to be tough. We want it to be tender and flaky. So I'm gonna stop playing with it and I'm gonna let this chill in the refrigerator, for minimum half an hour, preferably 2 hours, just to get it really chilled and let all of that gluten develop, and then we can pull it out and roll it. Now you'll notice a lot of the things that I did here, again, was to keep everything cold. Right? I froze the flour, froze the fat, chilled the water, minimized my hand contact, and then instead of letting it sit out at room temperature, I'm gonna put it in the refrigerator, and that's all the contrast with the Mealy version from the interactive recipe book, room temperature flour, warm water, room temperature lard, and resting, at room temperature. Really big contrast in, final texture, in the 2 doughs. Another reason why you might let it rest longer than half an hour is not only to, let the the, the gluten relax, but also to let the flour absorb the moisture fully. And that's another way that you get away with using less water is by having a longer resting period to let the flour truly absorb the water that's there. That way the dough kind of develops a little bit in the refrigerator. So it might look a little dry now, but when I pull it back out of the refrigerator, it's gonna look just right. All good? Perfect. Alright. Okay. So magic of television, I'm gonna go and grab my dough from the refrigerator. Chef, I'm gonna start in the meantime with Yeah. Our Mhmm. Recipe here. So we have, We have onion. We have garlic. I'm gonna start first to sweat a little bit because we wanna extract the flavor from our ingredients. So the sweetness from the onion. And here as well is a little bit, different technique than maybe what is mentioned in the book where we blend it first and then we cook it. So we wanna make sure we're maintaining the green from, the, green tomato, but as well from our cilantro. So the chlorophyll on this. And here we can see the garlic and the onion, so we're gonna sweat it a little bit. Let, these, Let me turn this one on. And here we have some tomatillo. As we can see, tomatillo has I was able to find it with the husk, so nice and fresh. You have to make sure that when you pick them at your grocery store, they're gonna be nice and firm. So removing the ask as we're doing right now, we're gonna wash them, and then I have some already here. Cut them in little piece. And so once we are sweating our garlic and and in this pan, we're We're gonna mix it together. We're gonna add a little bit of the cilantro I mean, the jalapeno, sorry, or Serrano peppers. Remove, the seeds if, you don't want it too spicy. And when you're removing the seeds, make sure you may be wearing a gloves, just because the spiciness is gonna still in your finger. And, if you rub in your face, it's going to be burning. So be very careful on that part. So just use a little bit of our jalapeno. I'm gonna add it right now that the our onion started to cook in small pieces. Here, you can add a little bit more if you like. You can make a mixture maybe over jalapeno, serrano pepper. Think always that you are cooking for, your client. You're not only cooking for yourself. So their spiciness, even if you like very spicy food, think that, the end result is going to be for your customer. And very important, as you can see, we moderate our fire. So we don't wanna have the fire all the way you thought because what we're gonna do if that we're going to getting our onion, our garlic a little bit too dark, and the darkness will give a little bit of bitterness. So we wanna get it gently, a little bit more heat than maybe just sweating, and then we are adding our tomato. We give a nice color, nice charring, so this will extract a lot of flavor as well from that, and that's the, difference. So in the recipe, you have a can, tomato. Obviously, with the fresh, if you are, for example, in southern region, I mean, Texas, in Houston, so it's much easier for sure to find it. It's going to be very easy on that. I see a note that somebody that doesn't, consume any pork, then substitute the delart with cold butter for that example in the recipe that chef Kyle was preparing. So you can certainly see chef Kyle keep on preparing the filling, I think. Chef Kyle, if you wanna give a few few notes on that, I'm I'm going to be Yeah. Writing a little bit here and then pass it back. Yeah. So, just like chef is, talking about charring, ingredients for the salsa, I charred my poblano pepper. And I I have a gas stove, so I literally just put it on top of the the flame and burned it all the way around and tried to make sure that it was burned everywhere. I put it aside in a bowl, covered it with a lid, let it cool off for 20, 30 minutes. And, then I pull it out and I scrape the chard, scan off the outside, deseed it, dice it up, and then I'm gonna mix it with cheese or the filling. And that charring does create some bitterness, so you wanna be careful you don't, like, turn it into, like, ashes. Like, if it starts to get white on the outside, you've gone too far. And at that point, you might start to completely burn the inside of the pepper. All you wanna do is just blister the outside, give it a nice char, and it like I said, it creates a little bit of bitterness, but the sweetness of the peppers, and all the umami and salts from the cheese balances everything out really well, and you get the benefits of, an umami or sorry, a smoky aroma, from charring things. You can also do this on a grill. You can do this over an open fire. You can do this in your fireplace with a blow torch, under a salamander, a broiler, anywhere where you can get some really intense heat on the pepper. Some restaurants will blister the skin in the deep fryer, and that will blister the skin and allow you to remove it, but it won't give it the the char and the smokiness. Same thing with blanching. You know? Like, if you blanch it, you just you'll get the skin off, but you won't get the char and the smokiness. And that's what we're looking for here, is to bring in some of that, authentic flavor. And you see this a lot in, Mexican cuisine, Central American, some South American cuisines. They'll char many of the ingredients to bring in this smokiness and hint of bitterness, which, balances out, the flavors. Bitterness, you know, when executed well and not overdone, can be really, really beneficial. Jeff, I'll turn it back over to you while I start rolling out my dough and filling it with. Okay. We can see we have, our onion getting nice and, sweated. So okay. As you notice, no color for the onion. Now we're gonna get change and bring in another skillet and put this on the side where we're going to be charring our on the other stove, very low, our 2 materials. So we warm up the pan first. So it's gonna be easy when we're adding a little bit of, oil, to making sure that, we control the amount easily, and then we're going to adding our tomato now. For this, I could have used the whole tomato on a grill just to think, of the majority of you that maybe at home, maybe in a in an apartment, may they don't have a grill or an outside grill. So if you have a grill, by all means, go outside, turn your grill on, put your whole tomato that you may be, washed first, and then, season with a little bit of, spices on the grill. Otherwise, we can do this simple way. Important thing is hot heat here, we got 2 contrast. Low heat for medium heat, I would say better. For our onions, so we bring the flavor, the sweetness, and then a little high heat. So we're gonna get some color now for the tomatillo. So get it nice and hot. I think you maybe can even hear this sizzling of, the hot skillet, I hope. And I'm gonna add already a little bit of pepper, fresh ground pepper, and, a little bit of salt. We wanna make sure we give a little bit of color so we bring those, flavors out. Then we have, some lines here for the lines. When we're going to be squeezing the lines after, I wanna show you a little trick by using a tongue. So putting the line between, your tongue like this and squeezing is going to be much easier for you to get most of, the juices out. So let me move a little bit the stove to extend this little bit. We can definitely hear and see a little bit of color. So we don't wanna we wanna make sure we got a little bit of color before we start to moving our to material. And, when you're gonna be doing now, obviously, if you would be all with me here, you could already start to smell this, beautiful aroma that we have, right here. So and at your home as well, I am sure you're going to be very pleased with, the result. So we got our so material, I wanna still give it a little bit of color, and then we're gonna do later the blending. So here I have 2 different 2 different blenders. So the normal classical blender that we may have at home, which is gonna give a little bit of a rough, maybe, blending, or some of you may have a NutriBullet, the magic NutriBullet, magic NutriBullet to get it very nice and fine. Chef Tan, you wanna talk a little bit about your empanadas since I see you have beautiful on your hand? Thank you, chef. Yes. I just rolled out the dough, about, maybe a quarter of an inch thick and put in enough filling, folded the dough over, pressed it down a little bit, trying to push out any excess air as I get down towards the end. And then there's lots of different finishing techniques you can do with the edges. I know, in the video, chef, used a fork, and that's cool. I kinda did more like a a pinching style to bring it together. So there's many varieties of, ways to finish up the shape, and, also, there are a variety of different ways to, shape it itself. So it doesn't have to have this sort of semi circular shape. It could be round, it could be triangular, lots of different finishing techniques you can apply to it, and in some places, the shape would indicate what the filling is. It serves the purpose of a a label. Right? So then you would have, like, in the menu, you'd look up and you see, oh, the well, this shape has the beef, and this shape has cheese, and this shape has guava and cheese, and this shape has, you know, sweet things in it. So many different variations. One other thing I wanna mention, before I hand it back over to chef is, when I put flour down on the bench, there's a right way and a wrong way. You don't wanna put an excessive amount of flour on the bench and then roll the dough on top of that, or what you'll end up doing is rolling a bunch of excess flour into the dough, making it drier and tougher. So instead of rolling the flour in, an excessive amount of it, I'm gonna use the minimal amount that I need to prevent the dough from sticking. I'm working on stainless steel table here today. You might choose to roll out on like a a sill pat, or some kind of like rolling mat. If you're working on wood, you know, it's got a little bit more friction and things tend to stick a little bit easier, so you might have to use more flour there. But on slick surfaces like this, I really don't have to use much at all. So everybody knows how to roll dice. So when you put the flour down, you wanna do it like that, like you're rolling the dice. You're putting just a little bit down, just paint them out. Don't do this. Pick up the flour, and then just dump it straight down. You see how much more flour went on the bench? And this is what I'm talking about. This causes problems, if you try to, roll the dough out on top of that. So, again, roll the dice. Right? It's kinda fun too. Alright. Perfect. Yeah. We got our material. Let me bring it close. You can see they're getting a nice, a a nice Oh, yeah. Color. So we're gonna place it now inside our blender with our onion and the the garlic, the jalapeno. Then we're going to we move this one away so we can see it. Let me put the stove on the back so we can bring the blender close by. Now we are going to be squeezing our lemon limes. So remember show you pull between your tongue, your lines, and then we squeeze it. It's gonna be much easier to get, all of the amount of juice out. It will be more. Yeah. Put it under the camera, so we're going to be able to capture all that when you are squeezing it like this. Perfect. And I'm gonna add our cilantro. We got some nice cilantro. And just to bring it to your attention, I have as well some Italian parsley. If you can see obviously, I don't wanna use the parsley because then we're gonna turn it into a a salsa, verde or pesto. We could add alongside with a loss of basil, of course, some, Italian parsley. But just to show maybe the leaves that they are they they're quite similar between one another. So the cilantro is here, and we have the flat Italian parsley. So it look alike, but has a big difference on flavor. Now, originally, because these, as you know, as you have read in your interactive lesson, is a recipe from Spain. So thinking about the pestle and the mortar for doing this the right way. Now for convenience, for speed, we use a blender. We use a NutriBullet. So I'm adding my cilantro. I wanna add a little bit, more of, of oil. And now I'm gonna go in the back because I don't wanna make too much noise around here, and blend it very fine. In the meantime, chef Kyle, is going to demonstrate. I see he has a a little bit of, the dough again. Let me see what something comes up here on the chart. So the aroma, parsley is rather pungent. Yes. It's a little pungent. It's nice. Different, however, from, the cilantro, which is a little bit more acidic, which it lay very well. So we have cooked before, and now we're gonna blend it. So we're gonna maintain our tomato sauce a little bit more, bright on the chlorophyll aspect with all the green sauce. Chef Kyle, back to you. Yeah. Yeah. And so I saw a couple of things in the chat earlier, and I just wanna clarify that, the flour that you're gonna use for this, is either bread flour and cake flour, or you can just use all all purpose flour. Now, I saw someone asking which flavor of cake mix to use, And just wanna be clear here. We're talking about cake flour, not cake mix. Right? Cake mix, I don't know. They they might use many types of flour in there, could be cake flour, but it's got flavor that we don't want for this recipe, and it has leavener in it. Like, you might have baking powder, baking soda, something like that, vanilla flavoring, you know, stuff like that. So, for this, we just wanna use cake flour, right, not cake mix. I went ahead and put 1 empanada in my toaster oven just to bake it off real quick so, I can show y'all a product, before we finish up the demo. In the meantime, just rolling things out here and, shaping things, the same way, but maybe trying different finishing techniques on the edges. The one that I just put in the toaster oven, I used my fork, to finish the edges. And, that's a fair another fairly traditional, finishing technique. That's what he did in the video as well as before opposed to the pinching that I did on the first one. I'm also gonna try this sort of, another finishing technique, you often see with empanadas, which is kind of like twisting the edges. So you'll see that coming up here in just a minute. Did I miss anything else in the chat? Anytime if we miss something, please, you know, just raise your hand or ask it again. We try our best to keep up with the chat, but it's challenging when we're doing demos. Good bread flour brand. I pretty much just stick with King Arthur for my bread flour and all purpose flour and whole wheat flour. I just like I I like king author. It works well, and, it's less confusing if you stick with the same brand of flour. For the cake mix, I I don't find cake king author here. I forget which one I get. I think it's Swan brand. Is that the one? Red Box? Beef large, would work. You could even use margarine for the instead of the lard. Jeff, do you care how they finish the edge? The if if it's pinch or fork or twist? No. Because if we are we're gonna actually going over a little bit this afternoon. Yeah. Every South American country apply a little bit of a different approach to these. Mhmm. So it's very interesting, the history and then the little approach. So the recipe that is demonstrated for you is with a fork. You can pinch it and definitely will be very nice, the elaboration on that or just exactly doing what, chef Kyle is doing right now for us, on on the screen. Yeah. So I always start with in the middle, kinda tap tamping down and trying to get close to the filling with my fingertip and pushing down on the dough on the edges. And then when I get all the way to the end, if there's any excess air, I'm pushing it out first and then pinching down. So the twisting is kind of like this. You, like, fold it over, and then you overlap the next fold, the next fold, the next fold, and you just go all the way around. And when you get to the end, take that last little bit and you fold it underneath. Right? So that's another way to finish it. Can y'all see that well? Look at that. Beautiful. And here I have the tomato sauce. As you can see, it maintain nicely our chlorophyll, our nice green color from mostly from the cilantro because, the tomato itself, yes, being green. But you see when we have charred, they've lost a little bit of the color. It's nice and and smoother, so we can use it for our southern here. 3 different ways on presenting the saws in whichever presentation, whichever type of vessels you may have at home, we can see that, we always eating with our eyes first. We're gonna really emphasize these throughout these, 12 weeks, because it's very important the way we are presenting. Now imagine placing on one side maybe 2 empanada, 2 empanada on the other side, having a mirror image. Presentation, really, is going to emphasizing the played in presentation, and that's gonna start to release, all these, neurotransmitters from our brain thinking that, oh, this is going to be awesome. So that's the reason why it's very important, the plating aspect. And if you will have your own establishment thinking, instead of placing the sauce in a very small unattractive container, having something like this, it could allow you to charge a little bit extra for, these elaboration. Any questions for you? In the meantime, chef Kyle is finishing his baking aspect from the empanada? You can we had a couple of questions that the you can use an immersion blender, right, like the little stick blender, perfectly fine. I I think, you know, this recipe, you know, the salsa verde, like, you you see a variety of textures. Right? Some people make it, like, completely smooth and creamy. Some people leave it chunky. So I think any blender, no matter what you have, whether it's a Vitamix or a, you know, immersion blender or just like a cheap, like, Hamilton Beach, you know, $10 blender, like, you'll achieve something that's sauce like. Now if you've got, like, a cheap Hamilton Beach or a, you know, 40 watt immersion blender, you're gonna struggle, to get something super smooth and creamy, but that's okay. Right? Except the chunkiness, if that's the equipment that you've got. The main thing is, like, knowing knowing your tool, knowing what it's gonna achieve, and being able to achieve the best results with that tool. Don't you don't need to rush out and buy something fancier to achieve the perfectly smooth texture here. Oh, and somebody else, spoke up and said the brand of flour, that that's common for cake flour in the grocery store is swans down. Substitute for cilantro. Yeah. Chef brought up the parsley is fine. Now if you can't do spicy peppers, you could certainly use a less spicy pepper, or you could just go with, like, bell peppers. Mhmm. Poblano peppers, Monterey Jack. Should you invest in a blender and a mixer or a food processor? Those are all good questions. It depends on how much you're gonna do at home and what the what your budget is. For me, I do a lot of stuff at home, and I want good equipment. So I have a KitchenAid, and I have I have a Rubikou, and I have an immersion blender, and I have a Vitamix blender. So I I've got, all the equipment that I want. But, it's up to you. Right? You know, some of these are big dollar investments. You know, I haven't used any other home mixers other than KitchenAid, so I can't make any recommendations there. But I think there's a lot of options on the blender side of things, many of them that are relatively inexpensive, like some of the, like Ninjas and NutriBullet and things like that. They're fantastic blenders for small volumes of things, and you can achieve just as smooth of a texture as you can with a Vitamix. It's just smaller volume, which I think worked well for, you know, everything you would do with homework. But, honestly, I would get my my top recommendation is the Braun multi quick, immersion blender because it has, the blending attachment, the whisk attachment, and a chopper bowl. And the Braun multi quick is one of the fastest, most powerful ones. It's actually 400 watts compared to some of the cheap ones that are, like, $15. They're they're, like, 40 watts, a 100 watt. Like, you can stir faster. You could chill your silicone mats, or, you know, anything, thick that you can put underneath, that's gonna keep it cold. You know? Like I said, I got, like, some scrap pieces of marble from, like, one of those, companies that makes the countertops. I just swung by and said, do you have any scrap pieces? They were like, yeah. Here. You know, I got, like, 12 by twelves, 12 by eighteens, you know, all kinds of different sizes. And, some of them fit perfectly in my freezer. So you don't even have to spend big on that. Or go look on, Craigslist, free section. Right? You know, sometimes, like, people cut some on countertop, and then they they just wanna give it away. The the Oh, yeah. The questions sorry, Jeff. The question, in regards to the food processor. Remember, the the blades, the food processor has, the blades a little bit, raised up compared to regular blender. So it will not get very fine. In this case, if Mhmm. That's gonna be the only instrument that you may have, you have to pulse it, often. So what gonna happen? It gonna goes up and come down again so it can, get nice and final as we, saw from this, presentation. Yeah. Those glass boards are are not for cutting. Sometimes they get labeled that way. Don't cut on a glass board. You can chip the glass and end up with glass in the food. Just use them as, like, a presentation. Right? Charcuterie or laying things out. Think of it as like a party tray. But you could roll things out on it and you could chill it first. Oh, one last thing I wanna say about a kitchen equipment is, that I think I didn't say, is go to, like, Goodwill or, you know, thrift store or, like I said, Craigslist, eBay, you know, Amazon Marketplace, and get, yard sales and get used equipment. Right? People buy, you know, they upgrade. They get something different. They want something smaller, bigger, different color, prettier, like, whatever. Like, you can get these things for, you know, sometimes $10, $5, a dollar. So, again, don't go out and spend, you know, $350 on a Vitamix and $400 on a KitchenAid and $800 on a Robot Coupe. Go buy inexpensive stuff. Learn how to use it and not break it. Yes. Perfect. I think, so to take away what points we're gonna take away? Remember the precious information about the dough. Cold ingredients, the key for success in this particular recipe, having ice cold water, so chef Kyle puts some ice cubes inside his water, and he freeze his lard because he wanna build the nice flakiness on the empanada that he just took out from, the oven. So now we're going to I'm gonna pass you over, chef. Let me switch the camera here. Mhmm. And we got the sauce, backup. Perfect. So we have 3 different containers here as well for the sauce. We can see a small, amount. Beautiful. The color that we have, on this nice empanada. Chef, can you hold that sauce back up again? I need I need to get it get get it really close get it really close here. I got I gotta I gotta get some gotta get some of that. Yeah. Deep it. Deep it inside. Oh. Oh, there we go. I got it. I got it. I got it. I got it. Oh, man. That's awesome. Wow. What the magic? The magical TV. Wow. Made a big mess here. Perfect. We're Sorry about our silliness here. We we we're having a little bit too much fun here. I wanted to say something else too is, about browning things. Right? Charring things. Like, most of the time when we're cooking, we're combining flavors. Right? You know, you're putting together flour and fat and salt and spices and herbs, and the flavor is what it is, and the combination becomes interesting. But sometimes when you're cooking, we got y'all crazy comment. Sometimes when we're cooking, you're creating flavor that wasn't there. And, you know, there's a science behind it, but it also kinda feels like magic because you you've pulled something out of thin air. Well, how do we do that? It's browning. K? And sometimes the goal is golden browned and delicious. Right? And it could be really light golden. It could be darker golden, but there's more flavor potential there. Right? Obviously, we don't wanna get burnt, but several years ago, I I thought of this term, and I don't know if I was the first, but I call it flirt with burnt. Right? That you flirt with burnt. You flirt with getting there, but you stop short of burnt. You'll notice that mine's a bit darker than, you'll see sometimes empanadas are. I could have made it lighter, but I did bake this in my toaster oven, and this is kind of the results that I get because the product ends ends up being really close to the heating element, so it gets really dark on the top and light on the edges. If I bake it in my oven, I'll get more even results depending on where I bake at. If I bake on the lowest rack, I'll get a really dark bottom. My toaster oven gives a really dark top and really light bottoms, but I don't there's no repositioning, so I just have to accept it. In the oven, if I bake on the bottom, I'll get dark bottoms and a light top. If I bake on the top, I get a dark top and a light bottom. If I bake in the middle, it should give me an even result. You also might have to rotate it, spin it. Some people will do 10 minutes on the bottom, 10 minutes on the top. Right? So you can play around with how you get brown, how much you get brown, and, you can also control how much browning you get. Right? So you could you could just get the golden brown delicious and let your eyes guide you. What I would argue, and this is something that I'm gonna talk about a lot in every class that I teach, is that you should use more than your eyes in the programming that you've got to stop at golden brown delicious and flirt with burnt instead and try to get more flavor. With every dish, you're gonna find a level of flirt with burnt that is the maximum amount that you want. You're creating some bitterness, which can be a nice contrast to the other flavors. You're creating some smokiness, which can be really interesting, but there's a point at which that char, that smokiness, and that bitterness starts to become too intense. And you're like, I'm flared with burnt too much. Maybe it's starting to seem burnt. So you'll learn to play with this, but don't be afraid to play with it. Try it. Right? See how much char you can get on those, tomatillos and let and really like the flavor. Like, sometimes I I'll put the them right on the fire or under the broiler really close to the flame and get lots of dark parts on there, and you get this, like, nice bitterness and smokiness. So, I think that's an important thing to to play with here. And frying them. I haven't tried frying this, though. I'd I'll stick one in, after the demo, and I'll show it to y'all later. We can see what it looks like. I was gonna say alongside with what chef Kyle say is very important because in the recipe description, you say, bake for 50 minutes, 375. So you put it in the oven, set up an alarm or your phone maybe, 15 minutes, TT TT, it ring, take them out. No. What the chef Kyle mentioned is very important. Look. It may be your oven is maybe not calibrated, maybe, it need a little bit more color, maybe you wanna achieve a little bit more of, these aromatics through the, to the chart, to the color that you're achieving. So that one is always an indication, and that's a perfect example for our 1st week, which we're gonna definitely take with us. Always in every recipe, the recipe is an look once we are cooking. So that's only a a direction for us to guide in us, but it's not really the time that is mentioned in the recipe. So something very important that, he made a very nice explanation of. Thank you, Jeff. And, also, check out them layers. Yes. That's the flakiness, well done. Yeah. The flakiness we're talking about. You know? It's like the way the dough comes apart. You know, it's very tender and flaky. There's pockets inside of it, and that's what you get, with that cold fat. So now I'm I'm I'm left I'm left here with the salsa, and you have, the empanada. So you enjoy your empanada, and I have to and I have to taste my salsa now. I you make us you make us hungry there. Well, you know, the nice thing about salsa verde is there's so many things you can do with it. So with the leftovers, I mean, I made one myself actually a few days ago for a client, and I had some leftover. I've been making enchiladas and tacos and all kinds of stuff with it. And, oh, almost forgot. One other thing, when chef was talking about baking the empanadas, I actually bake mine at 400 because I want more color. And, and I'd start in the middle, and then I move to the top about halfway through. So I I don't get as dark as I I usually do in the oven as as I did with the toaster oven, but it's all good. It depends it it's all up to your taste. Use your nose and not just your eyes. And then when you taste it, right, use your whole palate. Right? You're gonna when you taste it, you're gonna notice some bitterness on your on your tongue. It should be balanced out with the saltiness and the umami, and, you might smell some of the smokiness. Yes. Perfect. Yeah. Wow. So we got a very nice, beginning start here. Yeah. Review the information. If you have any question, bring it with you. We're gonna see each other again at 4 o'clock. I was just checking the number. We are up to 56. So wow. That's awesome. Having so many of you that, tune in on this first live study hall session. 4, we're going to have our live session. Last word, chef Kyle before wrapping it up. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you, chef. That was great. I realized I missed one thing about the deep frying. Yeah. They asked, what was the advice on deep frying? You know, use a good deep frying setup. I know you guys already did deep frying, week 12 of of c 101, with the fried chicken and onion rings. So, you know, just use that same kind of fryer setup. And depending on the size of the empanadas, you're gonna fry them at 350 or 375. Again, you decide on the color, you know, how dark you wanted to get it, and, drain them, let them cool off well before you stick them in your mouth. It burns. Yeah. Yep. Perfect. Thank you very much, everyone. See you at 4 o'clock. Yep. Thanks, everybody. See you at 4. Thank you, chef Patrick. See you later. Thank you, chef Patrick. Bye."